Underpinning the entire estimating process is effective time tracking.
Let's further explore why it is so important for you and your projects.
Okay, here is a Michael proverb on tracking your time.
If you don't track your time and I know many of you don't,
but I really want to convince you to track your time.
But if you don't, there is just no point in doing estimates in the first place.
Period!
Tracking your time accurately will help you have a
repeatable estimation process, will help you better predict your estimates.
And lastly help you improve and make adjustments to your estimation process.
Finally, your project begins.
You have just done all this great hard work,
iterating through several estimation cycles.
The project is given the go ahead to begin.
Your team is excited.
You have your bottom-up detail tasks and you assign them out to your team.
Your team starts development.
Now what?
How is the project doing?
Are you on target?
Are your estimates panning out?
How would you even know the answer to those
questions if you didn't track your time?
Your stakeholders, customers,
and/or management will be asking these questions and you better have an answer. So let's explore the many reasons why you should track your time.